Hey, welcome back.
So this next assignment is gonna
feel deceptively simple, right?
It's sit in silence, no phone, no
music, no input, just you and you.
Okay?
But here's the thing, for most
people, silence isn't actually silent.
It's full of noise, uh, internal noise.
And more often than not, that noise sounds
like what I call the voice of reason.
Okay.
It's not your intuition,
it's not your truth.
It's actually the inner PR
agent for your persona, okay?
The voice of reason is that, uh,
well-behaved, rule abiding, tight laced.
Part of you that always wants to
explain why your deepest desires are
impractical, irresponsible, selfish,
unrealistic, or just too much, right?
It's the part that says you can't do that.
That'll never work.
You've got responsibilities, right?
Be realistic.
What would people think?
Don't be foolish.
You should, uh, be
grateful for what you have.
Who do you think you are?
Right?
Do any of these sound familiar?
Well, let's get clear.
This voice, it's not your enemy, alright?
It's actually your protector.
It was born to keep you safe from shame,
from rejection, from failure, but.
What it protects you from is
also what it keeps you from.
It's like the psychological brake pedal
every time you inch toward your real edge.
Right?
And unless you recognize it by name,
by sound, by sensation, it will run
the show quietly, persuasively forever.
So let's meet it.
Okay.
Close your eyes if you can, and if
not, just settle into stillness.
Okay.
Now I want you to imagine
this scenario, alright?
You just told a friend that you're
gonna quit your job to launch a
creative project that you've been
secretly dreaming of for years.
All right?
Now, what is the first thing
your mind says in response?
Maybe it's you have bills to pay, right?
That's irresponsible.
Or what if I fail?
Now say it out loud.
Okay.
Literally say it out loud to
yourself and hear yourself.
Say it.
Feel it.
Okay.
Feel it in your body.
Where does it land?
Is it your chest?
Is it your gut?
Is it your heart?
Your head maybe.
Okay, now try this one.
You just decided you're
gonna start dating again.
Okay.
After a painful breakup, right?
What does the voice say?
You're not ready.
What if it happens again?
You're too damaged.
Say it out loud.
Note how it shows up for you.
Feel it.
Note where it's showing up.
That is its signature.
You want to know it intimately
so you're aware when it's
influencing your decisions.
Okay, so let's do one more.
You decided to set a firm
boundary with someone who
always pushes past your limits.
Okay.
What's that voice saying?
What's that voice?
Don't rock the boat.
Maybe they'll be mad at you.
It's not worth the fight.
Are you noticing a pattern?
The voice always sounds reasonable.
It uses logic.
It makes sense.
It feels like maturity.
But it's actually fear in disguise.
Now, let's flip it, right?
Let's tap into the energy
underneath the noise.
I want you to remember a time,
not like decades ago, maybe it
was recently when you felt fully
unapologetically alive, okay?
A time you weren't worried about what
people thought you were laughing or
dancing, or building or speaking,
or leading or loving, right?
What were you doing?
I'm gonna give you a minute here.
I
have you got it.
Okay.
What did it feel like in your body?
Where was the tension
or maybe the lack of it?
Did you feel warm,
electric, grounded light,
whatever it was.
This is your yes.
State, okay?
And it may not be logical, it
may not be safe, but it is true.
And in the next exercise, you're gonna
sit in silence for at least 30 minutes.
Wait, what did he just say?
He can't be serious.
Right?
Silence 30 minutes.
Yeah, that's what I said.
Except I also said or more remember
that, trust me, if you can truly tap into
your yes state, 30 minutes will fly by.
You'll forget that time even exists.
Your resistance right now, that's
because you're so used to being out of
alignment with yourself that you seek
distraction to keep you from going crazy.
This, this is something different.
This is, uh, daydreaming.
This is active imagination.
This is you at your most pure, and
during this exercise, you're gonna let
your mind wander, run free, lock onto
whatever it feels like, and you're
actually going to have license to
indulge in this luxurious fantasy, right?
This is where we find you.
But before you begin, I want you
to identify your voice of reason
and give it a name if you want.
Okay.
Dad, uh, doubt, the CFO,
whatever fits for you.
Write down a few of its phrases.
Okay?
What does it say when you dream?
What does it say?
When you reach, when you dare?
Right?
Notice where it shows up in your body.
Okay.
The tightening, the sinking, the tension.
Name it.
Okay?
And once you've done that.
I'll offer you this simple,
active imagination prompt.
If no one was watching and
I knew I couldn't fail, what
kind of life would I build?
And then you sit and you'll listen.
Not to the "Voice of Reason", but to
the one underneath it, the wild one, the
honest one, the one that pulses like a
second heartbeat beneath the surface.
This exercise isn't a
productivity hack, right?
It's not about writing a
vision board or making a plan.
It's about meeting
yourself without a filter.
So when the voice of reason tries to pull
you back, tries to protect you from a
dream, just tell it you're cool this time.
But thanks, right?
And keep going.
You're not here to be reasonable.
You're here to be real.
So when you finished, there's a worksheet
with some prompts that'll help you
distill what you learned from you.
So go crazy, right?
The silence is waiting
and it's a blank canvas.
I'll see you on the other side.